=head1 NAME

Glib::MainLoop -  An event source manager

=cut

=for position DESCRIPTION

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Event-driven programs need some sort of loop which watches for events and
launches the appropriate actions.  Glib::MainLoop provides this functionality.

Mainloops have context, provided by the MainContext object.  For the most part
you can use the default context (see C<default>), but if you want to create a
subcontext for a nested loop which doesn't have the same event sources, etc,
you can.

Event sources, attached to main contexts, watch for events to happen, and
launch appropriate actions.  Glib provides a few ready-made event sources,
the Glib::Timeout, Glib::Idle, and io watch (C<< Glib::IO->add_watch >>).

Under the hood, Gtk+ adds event sources for GdkEvents to dispatch events to
your widgets.  In fact, Gtk2 provides an abstraction of Glib::MainLoop (See
C<< Gtk2->main >> and friends), so you may rarely have cause to use
Glib::MainLoop directly.

Note: As of version 1.080, the Glib module uses a custom event source to
ensure that perl's safe signal handling and the glib polling event loop
play nicely together.  It is no longer necessary to install a timeout to
ensure that async signals get handled in a timely manner.

=head1 CONSTANTS

C<SOURCE_REMOVE> and C<SOURCE_CONTINUE> are designed for use as the
return values from timeout, idle and I/O watch source functions.  They
return true to keep running or false to remove themselves.  These
constants can help you get that the right way around.

    Glib::SOURCE_CONTINUE     # true
    Glib::SOURCE_REMOVE       # false

=cut



=for object Glib::MainLoop
=cut

=for object Glib::MainLoop An event source manager
=cut

=for object Glib::MainLoop
=cut

=for object Glib::MainLoop
=cut

=for object Glib::MainLoop
=cut

=for object Glib::MainLoop
=cut

=for object Glib::MainLoop
=cut




=head1 METHODS

=head2 maincontext thingamabob = Glib::MainContext-E<gt>B<new> 

=head2 mainloop = Glib::MainLoop-E<gt>B<new> ($context=undef, $is_running=FALSE)

=over

=item * $context (Glib::MainContext thingamabob) 

=item * $is_running (boolean) 

=back

=head2 integer = Glib::Timeout-E<gt>B<add> ($interval, $callback, $data=undef, $priority=G_PRIORITY_DEFAULT)

=over

=item * $interval (integer) number of milliseconds

=item * $callback (subroutine) 

=item * $data (scalar) 

=item * $priority (integer) 

=back


Run I<$callback> every I<$interval> milliseconds until I<$callback> returns
false.  Returns a source id which may be used with C<< Glib::Source->remove >>.
Note that a mainloop must be active for the timeout to execute.


=head2 integer = Glib::Idle-E<gt>B<add> ($callback, $data=undef, $priority=G_PRIORITY_DEFAULT_IDLE)

=over

=item * $callback (subroutine) 

=item * $data (scalar) 

=item * $priority (integer) 

=back


Run I<$callback> when the mainloop is idle.  If I<$callback> returns false,
it will uninstall itself, otherwise, it will run again at the next idle
iteration.  Returns a source id which may be used with
C<< Glib::Source->remove >>.


=head2 integer = Glib::Timeout-E<gt>B<add_seconds> ($interval, $callback, $data=undef, $priority=G_PRIORITY_DEFAULT)

=over

=item * $interval (integer) 

=item * $callback (scalar) 

=item * $data (scalar) 

=item * $priority (integer) 

=back

Since: glib 2.14

=head2 integer = Glib::IO-E<gt>B<add_watch> ($fd, $condition, $callback, $data=undef, $priority=G_PRIORITY_DEFAULT)

=over

=item * $fd (integer) file descriptor, e.g. fileno($filehandle)

=item * $condition (Glib::IOCondition) 

=item * $callback (subroutine) 

=item * $data (scalar) 

=item * $priority (integer) 

=back


Run I<$callback> when there is an event on I<$fd> that matches I<$condition>.
The watch uninstalls itself if I<$callback> returns false.
Returns a source id that may be used with C<< Glib::Source->remove >>.

Glib's IO channels serve the same basic purpose as Perl's file handles, so
for the most part you don't see GIOChannels in Perl.  The IO watch integrates
IO operations with the main loop, which Perl file handles don't do.  For
various reasons, this function requires raw file descriptors, not full
file handles.  See C<fileno> in L<perlfunc>.


=head2 maincontext thingamabob = $loop-E<gt>B<get_context> 

=head2 maincontext thingamabob = Glib::MainContext-E<gt>B<default> 

=head2 boolean = $context-E<gt>B<is_owner> 

Since: glib 2.12

=head2 boolean = $loop-E<gt>B<is_running> 

=head2 boolean = $context-E<gt>B<iteration> ($may_block)

=over

=item * $may_block (boolean) 

=back

=head2 integer = Glib::main_depth 

Find the current main loop recursion level.  This is handy in fringe
situations, but those are very rare; see the C API reference for a more
in-depth discussion.

Since: glib 2.4

=head2 boolean = $context-E<gt>B<pending> 

=head2 $loop-E<gt>B<quit> 

=head2 boolean = Glib::Source-E<gt>B<remove> ($tag)

=over

=item * $tag (integer) 

=back


Remove an event source.  I<$tag> is the number returned by things like
C<< Glib::Timeout->add >>, C<< Glib::Idle->add >>, and
C<< Glib::IO->add_watch >>.


=head2 $loop-E<gt>B<run> 

=head2 integer = Glib::Child-E<gt>B<watch_add> ($pid, $callback, $data=undef, $priority=G_PRIORITY_DEFAULT)

=over

=item * $pid (integer) child process ID

=item * $callback (subroutine) 

=item * $data (scalar) 

=item * $priority (integer) 

=back


Add a source to the default main context which will call

    &$callback ($pid, $waitstatus, $data)

when child process $pid terminates.  The return value is a source id
which can be used with C<< Glib::Source->remove >>.  When the callback
is made the source is removed automatically.

In a non-threaded program Glib implements this source by installing a
SIGCHLD handler.  Don't change $SIG{CHLD} in Perl or the callback will
never run.


Since: glib 2.4



=cut


=head1 ENUMS AND FLAGS

=head2 flags Glib::IOCondition



=over

=item * 'in' / 'G_IO_IN'

=item * 'out' / 'G_IO_OUT'

=item * 'pri' / 'G_IO_PRI'

=item * 'err' / 'G_IO_ERR'

=item * 'hup' / 'G_IO_HUP'

=item * 'nval' / 'G_IO_NVAL'

=back




=cut


=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Glib>


=cut


=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2003-2011 by the gtk2-perl team.

This software is licensed under the LGPL.  See L<Glib> for a full notice.



=cut

