# -*- perl -*-
#
# Copyright (C) 2004-2005 Daniel P. Berrange
#
# This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
# it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
# the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
# (at your option) any later version.
#
# This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
# but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
# MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
# GNU General Public License for more details.
#
# You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
# along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
# Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA
#
# $Id: Tutorial.pod,v 1.2 2006/02/03 13:34:18 dan Exp $

=pod

=head1 NAME

Net::DBus::Tutorial - tutorials on the Perl DBus APIs

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This section includes tutorials on the Perl DBus APIs. Current
topics include providing a service, by exporting objects to the
bus, and accessing a service, by calling objects on the bus.

=over 4

=item L<Net::DBus::Tutorial::ExportingObjects>

This tutorial covers how to provide a service to the bus by
exporting objects. The topics covered include basics of creating
objects and methods, emitting signals, exporting properties,
registering services for automatic activation.

=item L<Net::DBus::Tutorial::UsingObjects>

This tutorial cover how to use a service provided on the bus
by another application. The topics covered include the basics
of calling methods on remote objects, explicitly calling methods
in particular interfaces, listening for signals.

NB This tutorial is yet to be written.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Net::DBus>, L<Net::DBus::Object>, L<Net::DBus::RemoteObject>,
L<http://freedesktop.org/>

=head1 AUTHORS

Daniel P. Berrange L<mailto:dan@berrange.com>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2005 Daniel P. Berrange

=cut
