<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.5-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdedbx45.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY kdebugdialog5 "<application>KDebugDialog</application>">
  <!ENTITY kappname "&kdebugdialog;">
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
  <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" > <!-- change language only here -->
  
  
]>

<article id="kdebugdialog5" lang="&language;">
<title>KDebugDialog</title>
<articleinfo>
<authorgroup>
<author>&David.Faure; &David.Faure.mail;</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<date>2016-04-02</date>
<releaseinfo>Frameworks 5.21</releaseinfo>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>KDebugdialog</keyword>
<keyword>Debug</keyword>
</keywordset>
</articleinfo>


<para>&kdebugdialog; is a dialog box for managing diagnostic messages at runtime.
It features a simple and a full mode.</para>
<para>In order to be able to make changes  
<guilabel>Disable all debug output</guilabel> has to be unchecked.</para>

<note>
<para>Only for applications using the Frameworks library kdelibs4support.</para>
<para>kDebug() has been deprecated in &kde; Frameworks 5, in favour of &Qt;'s builtin categorized
logging, see<ulink  url="http://doc.qt.io/qt-5/qloggingcategory.html">QLoggingCategory</ulink>.
Use the program <ulink url="https://commits.kde.org/kdebugsettings">kdebugsettings</ulink>
to enable/disable qCDebug.
</para>
</note>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term>Simple mode</term>
<listitem>
<para>If you simply start <command>kdebugdialog5</command>, you will
see a list of <quote>areas</quote>, that can be disabled or enabled. A
<function>kDebug(area)</function> call in the code will show
something in the debug output only if the area is enabled.</para>

<note><para>Note that kWarning, kError and kFatal always appear,
they are <emphasis>NOT</emphasis> controlled by this setting. </para></note>

<para>Enter a matching string into the <guilabel>Search</guilabel> 
box at the top of the list, this allows you to filter the areas 
which are displayed in the list view.
Use the buttons below the list to select or deselect all items in the view
(the other areas are not effected) or change the debug output for a single
item using the check box in front of it.
</para>

</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>Full mode</term>
<listitem>
<para>If you start <command>kdebugdialog5</command>
<option>--fullmode</option>, then for every severity level you can
define separately what should be done with the diagnostic messages of
that level, and the same for each debug area.</para>

<para>In full mode, first you should select the debug area you are
interested in from the list at the left of the dialog using the 
search box at the top of the list.</para>

<para>You may independently set the output for various types of
messages:</para>

<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para><guilabel>Information</guilabel></para></listitem>
<listitem><para><guilabel>Warning</guilabel></para></listitem>
<listitem><para><guilabel>Error</guilabel></para></listitem>
<listitem><para><guilabel>Fatal Error</guilabel></para></listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<para>For each of these types, you can set the following:</para>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Output to:</guilabel></term>
<listitem>
<para>In this Combobox, you can choose where the messages
should be output. The choices are: <quote>File</quote>, <quote>Message
Box</quote>, <quote>Shell</quote> (meaning stderr) and
<quote>Syslog</quote>. Please do not direct fatal messages to syslog
unless you are the system administrator yourself. The default is
<quote>Shell</quote>.</para> 
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><guilabel>Filename:</guilabel></term>
<listitem><para>This is only enabled when you have chosen
<quote>File</quote> as the output and provides the name of that file
(which is interpreted as relative to the current folder). The
default is <filename>kdebug.dbg</filename>.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<para>Apart from this, you can also tick the check box <guilabel>Abort
on fatal errors</guilabel>. In this case, if a diagnostic message with
the severity level <computeroutput>KDEBUG_FATAL</computeroutput> is
output, the application aborts with a SIGABRT after outputting the
message.</para>

</listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

<para>When you close the dialog by pressing <guibutton>OK</guibutton>,
your entries apply immediately and are saved in
<filename>$<envar>XDG_CONFIG_HOME</envar>/kdebugrc</filename> 
(~/.config/kdebugrc by default). When you press
<guibutton>Cancel</guibutton>, your entries are discarded and the old
ones are restored.</para>

<para>Credits to Kalle Dalheimer for the original version of
&kdebugdialog;</para>

<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->

&underFDL;

</article>
<!--
Local Variables:
mode: sgml
sgml-omittag: nil
sgml-general-insert-case: lower
sgml-shorttag: t
End:
-->

